I would go off into the woods and then I
would hike off Trail far away from
anybody and I would fake cry and I did
this I think for like 2 or 3 months
until finally real tears came out in
this video we're going to talk about how
to feel your feelings my name is Joe
Hudson I'm a former venture capitalist
and now I coach some of the most notable
names in Silicon valet before I go into
the four tactical ways to feel your
feelings I want to talk about feelings
generally so first of all you're always
feeling a feeling there there is no time
when you're awake when a feeling isn't
happening you might not note it you
might not register it but there is
always an emotional sensation happening
in your body at all times secondly we
stop becoming aware of our emotions when
those emotions have been scary to feel
so if you take a kid that was physically
abused as an adult and you put a quarter
in one hand and a key in the other hand
and you have them close it without
telling them which is which they often
won't be able to tell you which is the
quarter and which is the key because
they have learned how not to feel their
body because they were physically abused
if your emotions weren't safe if you
were emotionally told it wasn't okay to
have an emotion or you were blamed or
bribed or beat or made fun of for having
emotions or just told to settle down
settle down anything that told you it
wasn't safe to feel your feelings you've
learned to cut them off so the problem
with that is that the emotional center
of our brain is what makes decisions so
if we can't be aware of our emotions
we're often making decisions in a very
unconscious way the great way to think
about that is how many times have you
made a decision because you wanted to
feel good or because you wanted to not
feel like a loser or because you wanted
to feel loved or you didn't want to feel
rejected or you wanted to feel like a
success or you didn't want to feel like
a
failure so here are the four tactical
ways you can learn to feel your feelings
the first one is learn how to recognize
your emotions when they're happening
the second one is to breathe and learn
how to breathe deeply the third one is
to feel it in your body and the fourth
one is to learn how to express your
emotions without becoming overwhelmed by
them okay let's get into the first one
so it's learning to recognize your
emotions so often times we have an
emotion without recognizing it and I
remember one of the ways that I learned
this the first time was that I realized
every time that my thinking was binary
black or white good or bad buy the car
or don't buy the car I knew I was in
fear and so I could recognize my fear
not from my body but because of the way
that my thoughts were going and that's
one way to learn how to recognize your
emotional experience so anything you can
do to learn how to recognize what you're
doing maybe it's because your wife tells
you oh you look upset or maybe you can
recognize it by actions that you take or
maybe you can just recognize it by every
2 3 hours stop and say what a what am I
feeling right
now and even if you can't put a word to
it like scared you can say oh I'm
feeling like my tummy is excited or
Zippy and I feel like my chest is
constricted because the thing about
emotions is that they all happen in the
body so if you can just start labeling
how you feel in your body you're going
to start being able to identify your
emotions which leads us to the second
way which is breathing when we breathe
and particularly when we breathe deeply
what we're doing is relaxing our muscles
and the thing about emotions is that
they affect our muscles and the more
constricted we are the less we're
feeling or the less we're trying to feel
so here's a cool experiment I want you
to stop feeling completely stop all
feeling from your body and what you've
noticed by now if you've really done it
if you've really tried to stop feeling
you'll notice that your muscles are
constricting right cuz our emotions are
in our muscles they in our body and
breathing opens those muscles up which
allows the feelings to become more
noticeable some particular muscles that
we hold to not feel are the jaw muscles
so we ar Chomp down on an
emotion the chest which often makes us
cave in our tummy is another one that
will hold tight to not feel a feeling so
if we can breathe and loosen those
things up just right now you can loosen
up your belly loosen up your jaw and
you'll notice the sensations in your
body become more alive you can feel them
more it's just as easy as that so deep
breathing helps you feel more now all of
this accumulates to the third tactical
way which is to notice the sensations in
your body now there's lots of ways to do
it the one that we really like is called
emotional inquiry and you can find it at
the link below and what you'll start
noticing is that emotions have a
particular sensation in the body there's
some great science on this even done
with heat Maps where they're showing the
heat in bodies and how many people have
similar heat Maps if they're feeling the
same way the more you can do that with a
curiosity a sense of wonder like a
little kid who's like picking up a
turtle the more you're going to be able
to feel it it's not just putting your
attention in your body here it's about
investigating and like finding out and
digging around and then letting those
Sensations move that's something that
really helps you learn how to feel your
feelings and finally I think the most
important thing about learning how to
feel your feelings is to express them
and this is going to feel really weird
cuz there's a lot of people out there
who've been taught their whole life that
being emotional is crap it's not good it
makes you weak or whatever the stories
are and they're all Bs right so having
your emotions and being able to feel
them not being controlled by them but
being able to feel them and express them
creates a tremendous amount of clarity
and in fact almost every time that
you're overwhelmed what's actually
happening is that you have an emotion
that isn't being felt it's not just that
things are busy it's because you go like
and you're holding and you're tightening
down not feeling an emotional experience
instead of breathing in and actually
allowing that emotion to move you could
do it the way that I did which is
somewhat ridiculous but let me tell you
the story when I was a kid I was made
fun of For Crying In fact sometimes my
parents would take pictures of me and
then one day when I was like 24 years
old I was flipp through a photo album
and boom there was a picture of me
crying and I thought oh that's probably
why I haven't cried in like 14 years so
I took that photograph out I looked at
it I put it on my desk to remind me that
I needed to cry somehow I knew that that
was really important and I still didn't
cry so then I thought oh I'm going to
practice crying and so I would go off
into the woods and then I would hike off
Trail far away from anybody and I would
fake cry and I did this I think for like
two or 3 months until finally real tears
came out and when I was finished I felt
so much relief I felt so good and you
can ask anybody that you know who cries
easily how good they feel after tears
it's an amazing Discovery to feel that
actually crying makes you feel better
and by learning not to cry you're
basically learning how not to feel
better another way to do it which I
think is a great way to do it is to
pretend you're an actor whose job it is
is to have a very convincing emotional
scene
an anger scene or a sadness scene or a
scared scene and you are not the person
you're just the actor doing it so it's
very convincing but it's not really you
so it's not personal and that's a great
way to allow your body to remember how
to have that expression and once your
body remembers it and it feels the
relief and it finds out that sadness
doesn't last forever that anger doesn't
destroy everything and I'm never saying
get angry at somebody else I'm just
saying get angry in the privacy of a
room where nobody's getting hurt or that
fear doesn't make you incapable and
makes you more capable when you really
feel it when you find those things out
when your body feels those things then
the emotions become more and more fluid
with all that said I want to let you
know how critical emotions are so we do
a lot of courses some are 8 weeks some
are 5 weeks in almost all of them there
is some emotional expression that
happens and I watch watch lives change
every day because of that I get to see
people open up and feel relief that they
haven't for years and stop beating
themselves up as much all because
they've allowed an emotion to move so
that they can get back to homeostasis so
they can get back to calm so if you got
into this part in the video I guarantee
there's something in you that knows that
emotions need to move and I highly
recommend it if you like the video
please hit subscribe if you want us to
make certain content let us know in the
notes below and if you want to watch the
next video it's a good one
[Music]